#Chapter 1

Ravek slammed his work knife between the crustacean and the rockface.  Gripping the handle with both hands, he grunted and twisted the blade, causing the strange creature to peel away from the Bulwark wall.  He readjusted his grip and levered up, freeing the slovak with a wet squealch and falling into the net below.  Ravek dropped the knife, tied to his belt by a short cord, and inspected his hands for signs of slovak slime or sting, looking between his fingers, in the creases of the knuckles, and under the fingernails as instructed.  On his fourth round of checking, Ravek froze: on the outside of his right little finger, a bead of blood.  He shivered.  He whipped open the pouch at his belt and pulled out the last of his kadi leaf, stuffing the wad of precious blue arrowhead shapes into his mouth with hand shaking.  After chewing the pungent leaves, he bit the inside of his cheek hard until he tasted blood and pushed the leaf mass against the wound with his tongue.  Eyes closed, Ravek swung from the harness rope and listened to his heartbeat pulsing in his ears, drowning out the ocean waves and sea wind.  He didn’t know how long he hung, suspended over the surf.  The beating in his ears slowed; his breathing steadied and deepened.

His eyes drifted open, and he looked down to his right hand, clenching and releasing it, analyzing the sting’s effects.

*Numb, but no shooting pains.  Grip still strong enough to climb, but not without care.*

It had been months since Ravek had been poisoned by a slovak, and he had allowed himself to get careless.  He looked down into the net below where the slovak still waved diminutive legs, feebly trying to escape its unusual prison.  He grimaced, wondering which of the retracting spines on the solvak’s underside had shot out and jabbed him.  He reached over to the knot tying the harness rope to himself and loosened it and lowered himself down to the net.  Secured to the cliff face by sharpened poles wedged into cracks that scrawled across the Bulwark face, he had strung the net between them earlier.  Ravek braced himself against the wall and worked loose first one pole and then the other, bringing them together to form a sack with the slovak clicking at him inside.  He swung the netted slovak hard at the rock wall, bouncing off due to its hard spiny carapace, gray and white to blend into the Bulwark.  Stunned, the creature ceased its frenzy and lay still.  Ravek smirked in satisfaction.

A jet of the sea sprayed up the wall several hundred feet from a strong wave striking it, soaking his legs.  Tying off the net and poles to his belt to hang below him, he twisted his eyes down to the increasing power of the surf and then the position of the sun in the sky.

“Flotsam,” he muttered.

He judged he had been waiting for the poison to wear off for an hour or so, longer than he planned to hunt slovak.  Based on the sun and surf, there was perhaps fifteen minutes before the Breath arrived, and then he would be nothing but another soul lost to the giant boulders and sharp rocks below, the Bulwark’s Tears.  He needed to move.

His gear secured, he began the arduous process of climbing up the remaining nine hundred feet of rock encumbered and weakened.  He had long been accustomed to the ascent, but his hand was still unfeeling.  Reaching up with his right hand, he visually confirmed the rope in its grip, willing it to close, and he waited until his knuckles were white before trusting to its strength.  He felt the headache begin, a locus of pain in his temples.  He stretched his left arm out to a knob on the wall and gripped it.  The tendons in his hand ached with fatigue and quivered with strain.  The edges of his breath began to taste metallic.  Louder still than his gasps was the growing thunder from the waves falling onto the cliff face below.

There.  To the right was a ledge above him that was deep enough to rest on.  He pulled himself towards it, handhold to foothold, and hooked his hands onto the lip of the rock and heaved himself onto it until one of the lines hanging from his belt jerked tight and held him short of safety.  The netted slovak had managed to work its legs into cracks in the Bulwark, trying to fully seat himself on the wall before the Breath.

Pulling mightily, his vision momentarily blurry, Ravek wrenched himself upward and ripped the slovak free, collapsing onto the rock ledge and croaking air into burning lungs.  The Bulwark rattled beneath him as the ocean roared against it, and fear spidered through him.  He twisted to look seaward, and nausea churned his stomach.  Not much time.  He looked upward.  A hundred and fifty feet.  He massaged his numbed hand with his other, aching hand and looked down to his prize.

"Flotsam and jetsam!" he shouted into the wind, the words whipped to sea.  He jerked his head to study the route to safety above, searching for secure handholds and footholds.  He narrowed the options to the one he could wedge his near useless hand into a vertical crack for the climb up, which on any other day would have been a poor choice.  He pushed himself to his feet, putting his back to the wall and palms flat against it and looked out to the tempest.  The insistant waves plunged over themselves to get to the Bulwark, roaring their disdain of land before falling back.  He curled his numb hand into a fist, tighter and tighter until it shook.  He still couldn't feel it.

Ravek dropped to his knees and pulled up his knife and sawed through the netline to the slovak, each stroke like a blade across his wrist.  His eyes locked onto the net as it tumbled down into the churning foam below.  He turned back to the wall for the ascent.  Lighter and unhindered, he followed the crack he had seen up to top of the Bulwark at a speed just short of reckless, his arms shaking, his numb hand getting scraped and wrenched by its rough treatment.  He levered himself onto the top and flopped onto his back, jolted by sudden joy to have escaped the Breath in time but replaced by despair over the cost.  He sat up and looked over the froth of the ocean below and his lip curled into a sneer.

The ocean takes everything in time, they say.  Not even the land itself can hold it at bay forever.  It had taken his parents when he was too young to remember, but being a sea urchin wasn't unusual.  He had his grandfather and uncle to raise him.  First his grandfather had died, then his uncle perished on the river.  Alone at 14, he would make his grandfather proud for carrying on like a man and taking care of himself.  He wouldn't moan and wail like a woman.

Alone.

Rage boiled up inside him and filled his veins.  He leapt to his feet and unleashed a primal scream into the stinging wind, then taken and engulfed by the deep voice of the ocean's rage, matching his own feeble attempts.  He paced the wall with reaching strides, shouting at the uncaring sea.  The Bulwark shook under the ocean's onslaught, knocking him down, but that just enraged him further.  He slammed his numb hand against the ground again and again, grinding his teeth, until he could feel the pain.

Laughing, Ravek fought the bucking ground under him and tottered to his feet, throwing up a gashed and bloody fist above him like a trophy.  The Breath approached, a monstrous wave that made all the previous ones mere ripples in comparison.  Even from the height of the Bulwark, its size was incomprehensibly half as tall as the cliff itself.  Unrushed and stately, it rolled forward.  As long as the wall.

"Take me!  I'm right here waiting for you!"

The Breath met the wall with a deafening crash, the Bulwark screaming in a way stone should not.  A wall of water frothed with foam and filled with everything the Breath could snatch from the sea shot up and towered above the Bulwark hundreds of feet in the air, an impossible hand ready to slap down and crush everything foolish enough to stand in its way.  Then it rushed down, mercifully sparing the madman.  The Bulwark rumbled, and a huge chunk of the clifface fell away to the sea in a tremendous rush, a fresh Tear shed from rocky face of the Bulwark.

"So close!  So close!  You'll have to try again another time, Sea Father!" Ravek giggled.  Soaked with spray, he gathered up his lines and supplies, and he turned to follow the path back to Watch, empty handed.  Alone.


#Chapter 2
His feet slapped against the hard flinty stone atop the Bulwark.  The rock itself was quite beautiful if one could take the time from surviving to appreciate it.  All hard planes and sharp angles, it drifted from dusty gray to night black with small dots of crystal taking the light and flicking it back into your eyes.  Between various shades it was veined in a deep, black, red.  There was a reason why even small pieces of the Bulwark's Tears were valuable throughout the softlands, used in jewelry, bowls, combs, knife handles, mantlepieces, doors, and columns.  It was rumored that some lords built their manors with huge amounts of the material, and that a softland king had constructed his entire throne room of the stuff.

"Fish guts," Ravek muttered, kicking a loose chunk of the glittering Bulwark off the edge, worth at least a week of labor if sold inland.  The problem wasn't getting it.  The Breath ensured an endless supply.  It was so heavy and difficult to transport that few could trade it downriver fast enough or in sufficient quantities to be profitable.  Those that managed had become wealthy, but the initial investment had destroyed more than a few years of scrimping and saving from those who had attempted it.  The vessel to carry it was expensive, the trip into the Veins perilous, and the captains both brave enough and experienced enough to accomplish it were rare and expensive to hire.  Ultimately, that meant that he stood on a mountain of wealth just as accessible as the seabed itself.

He sighed and looked to the ocean, a sheet of blue to the horizon.  The Breath spent, the sea had pulled back to gather itself for its next assault on the Bulwark.  He had chosen to make his way through slovak hunting.  The creatures were easy to transport and sold well in Watch for high prices, but were considered too dangerous to gather alive.  It was the task of children to scamper over the rocks searching for dead slovak to sell for praise and rewards.  Unfortunately, the slovak's death starts souring the venom, ruining the meat and rendering it unusable for the physicks.  Capturing them alive allowed him to sell them for six times higher than usual, but came with the risk of being lanced with the potent slovak poison.

Needles of pain began to pop and crawl through his hand.  Ravek grumbled under his breath, grabbing his hand and rubbing as if to push them out of his veins.  It had been a long time since he had last been stung, and he had forgotten how uncomfortable it was.  The numbness is the true danger of the venom.  First it numbed the mind with a lethargic delerium, then paralysis of the body, and stilling the lungs.  Most victims panic then, eyes rolling and darting, tears leaking, they suffocate.  All sea urchins are warned of it, and those that see it occur are never children again.

No more kadi leaf left, he thought.  He pulled open his pouch and dropped his hand inside, pulling his fingertips along the bottom seam hoping to feel more hidden blue leaves inside.  Nothing.  A soft whimper slipped out of his lips before he could squish it.

Ravek plodded forward, exhausted by his toils of the day, not looking forward to Calepo's questions.

---

Eventually, the top of the Bulwark gave way to open plains on his left hand and open sea to his right.  He began climbing the slate stone to reveal Watch looming below him.  It was an impressive redoubt of stone, carved into the rock of the Bulwark itself.  Housing, shops, stalls, streets, paths, all were cut deeply, though crudely.  Tunnels entered the cliffside and appeared elsewhere.  Rope bridges spanned the empty spaces to connect streets between undulations of the cliff.  Ladders went from housing below to new streets above.  Children scampered along cliffedges and bucking rope bridges while screaming and throwing rocks.  Watch grew around an opening in the Bulwark, guarding the river known as the Artery, which as it flowed into the continent branched out into the Veins, connecting many inland towns, cities, and fortresses of the inlanders.  In the center of the mouth of the Artery as it opened to the sea, a gigantic statue loomed, features long since worn away.  It was known locally as the First Fisherman, but inlanders called it the Sentinel.  He stood on his pedestal with head lifted to sea and lifting up a massive lantern.  The First Fisherman was hollow, and Watch had been keeping the beacon in his lantern lit every night since time immemorial, guiding ocean faring vessels to the only water passage inland.

Ravek continued along the top of the Bulwark until coming about the western gate into Watch, a slope down into the stone leading to a raised portcullis.  He eyed the spikes above him as he passed underneath, scurrying under the barbed tips of that steel maw.  He halted under the gaze of the guard casually blocking his way.  The guard snorted.

"Not a good catch today, eh Ravek?  In fact, I'd say you came back with less than you left with," his eyes rolled to make contact with his fellow through a window in the stone wall and shared a laugh.

"Let me go," Ravek said, eyes affixed to the cracked leather of the guardsman's boots.

"I don't know, should we let people in who lose nets?" He leaned in, mirth vanishing like the Breath itself.  The fish leather armor he wore gave off a distinct musty smell.

"I paid for it," Ravek's eyes met the guard's, a scowl twisting the boy's face.

"Well, he paid for it, he says.  I 'spose it's fine to throw away perfectly good nets then if you've *paid* for it.  The Fishermen will overlook that, won't they Ravek?" he said, leaning back with a matching scowl.

"No, they won't," he said, voice soft and eyes again on the leather boots.  They were in need of polish.

"Well then, I wouldn't want to speak for Fishermen, but were I you I would think of a good story.  No, actually I would think it would be better to think of a way to attone.  Yeah, skip the story, lad," the guard said and snorted, stepping to the side for Ravek to squeeze by.

"Thanks," Ravek said to the guard's boots.  He descended down into the rough-hewn tunnel and started trotting once the guards were lost to the windings of Watch's caverns.  He checked his gear and winced thinking of how he would need to explain the lack of a catch as well as losing his net.  Stout cording for nets came from further inland and commanded a high price.  Plants grew poorly on the Bulwark.  Soil never lasted long on the cliffs, and anything that tried to put its tendrils into that stony ediface was ripped out by the constant power of the Breath.  Sea plants crisped in the sun and fell apart in the hands of its users.  It was common for men coming of age in Watch to be given a net to feed their families, and boys studied the process of reknotting and mending nets.  To have lost his grandfather's net to his own stupid mistake was shameful.
