The Veins are a complicated network of gorges, canyons, and gullies branching from the [[Artery]]. Many of the Veins are empty, nearly empty, or low until the [[Breath]] pushes seawater up the Artery and fills the Veins. The volume of water in every part of the Veins rapidly increases, creating situations that lull the unwary until they become swamped and drown in the rapidly rising waters. While the danger of the Veins is nowhere near that of the Artery, many believe that the Veins have killed more people than the Artery, which people are rightly terrified of and cautious toward.

The Veins also function as the route of water in the more traditional water-cycle sense from freshwater sources, such as snowmelt or rain. Because of this, knowledgable guides can taste the water to gain intuition about how far that Vein is from the Artery, how deep inland it is, and how close it is to freshwater sources.

Many villages and towns ply the Veins as a method of travel between places. The gorges and canyons particularly make travel overland difficult or impractical. These gatherings of people are extremely common in places where freshwater [[Bloodlines]] meet the Veins. These [[Junctions]] serve a practical purpose of serving the freshwater needs of a community while also providing access to travel to nearby settlements as well. A freshwater community without access to a Vein is at the economic mercy of its Veinward counterpart.

Traveling the Veins is unusual in that it typically occurs tidally. To clarify, the [Breath](Breath) comes in and pushes the dominant current deeper inland. This greatly helps travelers destined inland. Later when the [[Inhale]] pulls out, the currents in the Veins reverse seaward. This greatly helps travelers destined closer to the coast. The net result is that traffic on these waterways follows the patterns of the Breath and are timed and scheduled to coincide with it. Going against that pattern is costly. Most of the Veins are cut deeply into the earth, so wind either passes it completely or is whipped through it, and usually not in the direction that's wanted. So, this involves lots of oarwork. It's a sign of a lot of wealth to go against this pattern, or of an emergency.
